In this lesson we're going to look a
little bit more at processing lists with
for loops.
Let's open up a new program we'll call it
forlist.py.
Let's begin by creating a list of the
first two
integers, so there's out list and to
refresh your memory.
To access each element in the list I
simply create a variable and say for
that variable in the list and then perform
some sort of task on that element.
In this case we just want to print.
So this will print one to align each
number int he list.
So let's say the program.
Go back to command line and run it
and there's our rest of the first ten
integers.
Besides the standard way that we use the
for loop we can
also use the for loop with the index by
indexing into the list.
So, for example, let me demonstrate what
indexing
means, in case you're not familiar with
the term.
Number Sub Zero will give me access to the
first element
of the list, one, because we start
counting at the zero element.
So, if I want to access each element, zero
through nine.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to say
for
i in range zero length of numbers like so.
Print numbers sub i.
So see how this program works.
Save it.
Go back to our DOS prompt.
Clear the screen, run it again, then we
get the same result.
Now one thing you might want to do when
you're working with
a list of elements is access some partial
set of the complete list.
For example, what if I want to display all
of the I elements in the list.
Well I can't do it using the standard for
loop, but I
can do it using the indexing version that
we're looking at here.
In fact, all I have to do is add 1 more
element to my range function and that's an
increment to say go from zero to one to
two then three to four.
In other words skip an element each time,
so let me demonstrate for you how that
works.
Save this file, come back to our command
line, clear the screen.
And there's 1, 3, 5, 7, 9.
So we could do that at any increment that
we
wanted to, so for example I could do the
3.
Save the file.
Run it again.
And there's 1, 4, 7, and 10.
So it's important to understand that even
though the primary use of a for loop is to
access each element in a sequence, it's
not necessary to do so.
And if we want to modify that process,
what we have to do is, we have to specify
some type of range, because range provides
us with a set we can iterate over.
And then index into the sequence to access
the elements in the range that we've
specified.
In the exercises a bit later in the
chapter we're going
to demonstrate in more practical use of
this technique, but for
now I'd like to move on to the next lesson
where
we're going to demonstrate how to use for
loops with two poles.